---
topic: Animal Science
date: 2025-05-01
title: "Largest Rodent on Earth: Capybara"
writer: Aiden Kim
slug: largest-rodent-on-earth-capybara
thumbnail: ../images/articles/orca_whale.jpeg
---
Animals are born wild and instinctive. They compete with one another and gain what they want. However, there is this rodent species that has an enormously calm and friendly nature. While most people are scared of the appearance of big rats and rodents, this animal called capybara is considered one of the most favorable creatures. In this short journal, I would like to attract you guys into the allure of capybara, the largest rodent.

## Basic Information
Capybaras are native to South America and as explained in the introduction, are the largest rodent species. Weighing up to 70 kilograms, they grow up to 1.5 meters in length and 0.5 meters in height. Since they are “rodents,” some people have misconceptions about them as being omnivores; in contrast, they are herbivores with their main diets as long grass, fruits, reeds, and any grains. Due to their massive body, they eat up to 10 pounds of grasses per day. All these processes are supported by their long and sharp teeth; behind their cute and large face, there is a hidden weapon: long sharp teeth. Slowly moving into appearance, I would first like to explain about their body. Capybara has a big body covered with dark and light colored brown fur. These furs help capybaras to easily swim by being thin and light; they dry very easily in the sun too. Not only do these furs support swimming, but it also protects them from strong sunlight and coldness. When furs are a pedal for their survival, their feet act as an engine. Their feet have soft bottoms and a web on each space which makes them faster inside water; feet are then supported by their strong leg muscles which is a reason why they have a relatively short leg. Now, I would like to move onto their personalities. 

## Friendly Nature
Capybaras are well known for being friendly with any type of animal species, even human beings. While there isn't a sure explanation about their personalities except that they are  highly sociable and have a kind nature, some scientists have few arguments about their personality. The first argument is that they are herbivorous, and thus they have no reason to show offensiveness to other animals in their territories. While this argument does make sense to other herbivores such as rabbits and deers, there are some contradictory arguments stating there are other herbivorous animals such as hippopotamuses that are very offensive. The second argument is that they are already animals that have a big social group per individual. Unlike how typical rodents are, capybaras are more intelligent which allows them to move and eat as a whole company within 40 individuals per group. As most arguments are, there also is a counter argument that declines this supporting statement; it is that having a pre-existing social group is not correlated with having “kind and sociable” nature. Other animals that move in packs usually show more aggressive behavior to secure their tribe, contrarily. The last argument, which is one of the strongest arguments, is that they are  “born to be” chill in their nature because they are not territorial. This means they have no exact land to protect, which means that the only thing that they should secure is their family: in fact, the only moment when capybaras get mad is when their families are in danger. To sum up, capybaras are a very quiet and sociable species that even hangs out together with their predators sometimes. These characteristics helped them to be one of the biggest booms in 2024.

## Conclusion
Many animals are known to people, thanks to social media nowadays. Animals such as red raccoons, platypuses, and capybaras are animals that were exposed to more people due to the media. As explained, while most animals are exposed to people because of their cuteness, in this article, I not only wanted to explain how capybara is an interesting and unique animal, but I also wanted to gain interest in you guys about the amazing facts behind their popularity and meme-like image that people have. Capybaras, thanks to their adorable appearance and viral videos, became extremely popular in the 2020s. Starting with all the memes related to capybaras, songs and even games were made about capybaras’ cuteness and their loveable nature. After reading this article, I hope we now can explain to others about how special capybaras are in terms of their appearance, personalities, and their controversies.