---
topic: Psychology
date: 2024-12-01
title: ADHD
writer: Alvin Park
slug: adhd
thumbnail: 
---
ADHD, or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, is a behavioral condition that makes focusing on everyday requests and routines challenging. It can influence academic grades, work life, and social relationships. Even today, we still haven’t found the reason why people develop this disorder. This suggests that genetic, neurological, and environmental factors all play a significant role in the development of ADHD. This disorder is diagnosed mainly through behavioral assessments, based on information from teachers, parents, and medical professionals. 

ADHD is characterized into three main types: inattentive, impulsive/hyperactive, and combined. The first type is characterized by inattentiveness and few or no symptoms of hyperactivity or impulsivity. So, it is hard for the individual to organize or finish a task, pay attention to details, or follow instructions or conversations. The second type is characterized by hyperactivity and impulsivity. Smaller children may run, jump, or climb constantly. Additionally, patients feel restless and have trouble with impulsivity. The combined type involves symptoms of both inattention and hyperactivity-impulsivity. This can cause a lack of focus, restlessness, poor memory, and being unable to wait for their turn. These symptoms usually happen before the age of twelve, and this can cause big challenges in their relationships. 

The reason why people develop ADHD is not yet discovered. However, there are many theories including psychological and biological factors. Differences in certain genetically defined receptors may increase their susceptibility to ADHD. A common example is dopamine. Low levels of dopamine are associated with inattention, mood instability, and reward and motivation deficits, which are the most common symptoms of ADHD. Also, the environmental conditions can negatively affect the patients. These can include prenatal influences such as maternal smoking, alcohol consumption, drug use, premature birth, and low birth weight. ADHD doesn’t happen because of a bad parenting style or discipline. Instead, this can be influenced by a combination of biological heredity and environmental factors that cause low development of the brain and control of the body.

ADHD diagnosis is decided by the comprehensive information of parents, teachers, or some others who have often seen the patient's behaviors. The diagnosis of it is usually decided by ABAS-S (adolescent behavior assessment scales), which assesses the frequency and severity of ADHD symptoms by evaluating children and adolescents’ relationships with others, peer relationships, academics, behavior, tasks, and self-esteem based on the DSM-5 diagnostic criteria. The symptoms should last for at least 6 months to be diagnosed with ADHD and there should be symptoms in two living environments such as school, family, or work. 

ADHD treatment generally involves a combination of behavioral interventions and medications. Medication is usually used to help manage symptoms. Stimulants like methylphenidate or amphetamine are most common. Behavioral therapy replaces negative behaviors with positive ones by teaching strategies to improve problematic areas like organization, focus, and impulse control. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), parent training, and social skills training are some of the most effective approaches. CBT helps them to recognize what the problem is, and by recognizing it, the patients challenge oneself. Then, when the patient overcomes it, the therapist makes the patient overcome the problem.

Research on ADHD has advanced significantly these days, focusing on improving diagnostic techniques, understanding the patients, and developing more effective treatments. One thing that is gaining attention recently is neurofeedback and brain stimulation therapy. Neurofeedback is a method that assists subjects to control their brain waves consciously while stimulation therapy involves engaging individuals in themed activities to enhance cognitive functions, memory, and quality of life. Also, ADHD sometimes occurs with allogeneic diseases such as anxiety, depression, and learning disabilities. Understanding these interactions can lead to more effective and comprehensive treatment. 

In conclusion, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorde r(ADHD) is a complex disorder that impacts various aspects of people’s life such as school, work, and social relationships. Despite recent research, the exact cause of ADHD is unclear, but we know that genetic, neurological, and environmental factors contribute to their development. Initially, management for the patients is very important, managing the disorder, and a combination of behavioral therapies and medications can effectively improve the quality of patients’ lives. Also, neurofeedback and brain stimulation therapy can show improved cognitive functions, attention, and impulse control. Additionally, understanding allogeneic diseases of ADHD such as anxiety, depression, and learning disabilities will lead to more effective and comprehensive treatment. As the research and other treatments keep developing, we can give better support, solutions, and treatments to ADHD patients, which can lead them to live better lives.