---
topic: Art
date: 2023-04-01
title: Criticisms Towards Contemporary Art
writer: Hyojae Lee
slug: criticisms-towards-contemporary-art
---
Contemporary art refers to art that began between 1950 and 1970, and continues to this day. The biggest feature of art during this period is that with the emergence of photographs, painters are no longer tasked with realistically reproducing objects. Therefore, art moves away from the question of how realistic the object is to exploring the formative beauty or concept. Abstract art that explores the beauty of dotted colors itself, or conceptual art that has become the main trend of art since Marcel Duchamp is a representative example. Modern art overlaps with postmodern art. However, the concepts of the two do not overlap, and postmodern art is included in modern art. In the case of postmodernism, it is difficult to call it 'art' anymore. It is becoming a comprehensive art by attracting elements such as sound, touch, smell, and taste, moving away from the existing art genres such as painting, ridicule, and engraving. Some say that there is no such thing as postmodernism, while others say that postmodernism is over. 

While there are many contemporary artworks nowadays, you might have seen some arts that are hard to understand with common sense. Just leaving one dot and randomly sketched drawings are the examples. Criticisms towards those arts will be described in today’s article. The definition of these arts is controversial in many ways because the standard is so ambiguous. In particular, modern art, especially avant-garde art, is difficult for the general public to accept. The public might ask these questions:  "What is it? Signing the toilet is a work of art?" and "Is it art to knock down the piano?" There are many arts that even feel impure rather than beautiful. Nevertheless, if these works and actions are art, will art eventually become a genre that no one can understand? If it is art, should it be believed that art is art?

It may seem like an exaggeration, but there are paintings that actually fill the entire canvas with just one color or dot, and those sell for huge amounts of money even though you spray paint on it without any particular purpose. Since the appearance of photographs, art is no longer playing a major role in transferring reality, increasing the becoming non-intuitive and forcing implications. Some artists often defend by saying it is a difficult field for regular people,who would not understand the  works and the artists even if they were to explain. The general public mocks by saying  that "your art will be worthwhile even if you were to bring a painting  of a child and call it modern art.” There are always various explanations in modern art and it is said that it was made with some intention. On the contrary, there is also a speculation that it may have been drawn and created with a plausible meaning. Then what do people who work in the art industry say about this?

It is the idea that the work that carefully depicts the real object with great effort is a good work, and the abstract painting that seems to have just been painted is a work that has been less dropped. This may have been the case during economic demand when the only way to reproduce reality was by human hands, but this is not the case today, when realistic depictions of photographs have become common as described above. The reason why Jean Du Buffet purposely collected children's paintings and copied them is that the value of "purity of young children" has become more scarce economically. It is in that context that Picasso said it is harder to draw like a child. Today, realistic paintings can be easily produced from photographs, and scarcity has been reduced because many people have already painted them in the past. That's why paintings drawn with "distortions" like the ones by Gogh began to appear after impressionism. That's why abstraction was once in the spotlight because formative experiments and non-material expressions began to be emphasized rather than realistic descriptions in the same context. It's not because they’re bluffing after drawing pictures that look insincere because they don’t use the description of classical art, but it is because they don’t have to use such intricate techniques.