---
topic: Sports
date: 2023-05-01
title: Drug Use and Doping in Sports
writer: Jimmy Lee
slug: drug-use-and-doping-in-sports
---
Doping improves athletes' physical abilities, but it is illegal. Let me tell you why they use it, what kind of medicine it is, and its effect on their bodies.

The doping test began in November 1991 to protect athletes' health and mental health. The typical test method is urine test and blood test. The urine test is 80 ml bottled, and the blood test is blood drawn, but the doping test is getting less and less necessary. The reason is that the players are doing drugs more cleverly. There are two typical methods to penetrate these tests. The first is using a blood-doping machine. Blood doping uses drugs three days before the game and draws blood, so when you go to the game on the day of the game, it's hard to catch the player. However, the technology has improved these days and the test catches the drug user by looking at the red blood cell count. The second method is machine doping. Machine doping is doping an athlete's equipment. For example, if you put an automatic pedal in your bicycle and play, this is machine doping. That's why it's hard to catch, but in competitions, we find it with thermal imaging cameras.

There's a new kind of doping. Brain doping is an electrical stimulation that induces improvement without the use of drugs in certain areas of the brain. There is no specific test method yet to detect it, and there are no definite regulations. But there are some players who feel unfair about putting on these types of doping. Park Tae-hwan is a Korean marine boy. Park Tae-hwan administered the drug because his male hormone levels dropped a lot, which could lead to health problems. The doctor administered it because it wasn't for doping, but he got it, intentionally or not, and was disciplined because it was already administered. Doping has many side effects, but most have similar symptoms including seizure, neuralgia, muscle pain, severe muscle pain, and even death. There are side effects like this, but why do people do doping? I think the reason is to get good scores in their games. A  famous player who doped was Ben Johnson, who had a rivalry with Carl Lewis. Ben Johnson at the 1998 Seoul Olympics won by a difference of 0.29, but later tested positive and was disqualified. Exercise uses all muscles. Therefore, the results are definitely higher when using drugs. Also, 0.01 seconds is a big time in competitions like the Olympics.