---
topic: Technology
date: 2023-04-01
title: AI Technology Permeated Through People’s Lives
writer: Luke Lee
slug: ai-technology-permeated-through-peoples-lives
---
# Google’s Previous Search Engine System
BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) is a machine learning (ML) model for natural language processing. It was developed in 2018 by researchers at Google and serves as a multi-purpose solution for more than 11 common language tasks such as sentiment analysis and named object recognition.

BERT has made a big difference in natural language processing. For example, previous natural language processing models processed words without considering context, but BERT provides more accurate results than previous models by considering context. It also understands the meaning and syntax of sentences, so it is very effective in advanced natural language processing tasks such as question answering systems.

However, one of the big drawbacks of BERT is the need for massive data and computing resources. This means that learning takes a lot of time and money. Therefore, it is chosen only for companies or research organizations with these resources to use advanced natural language processing models such as BERT.

Google uses the BERT model in many products and services. Google is using BERT to improve the user's search engine, and voice recognition services such as Google Assistant use BERT too.

# What is Google's MUM system?
Google recently introduced the Multitask Unified Model (MUM) system. MUM is 1,000 times more powerful than BERT and uses the T5 text-to-text framework. This system can not only understand languages but also create them. Trained in 75 different languages and performing multiple tasks, it can provide more comprehensive information and world knowledge than previous models.

The MUM system helps users quickly find what they want. Previously, when a user typed a search term and searched, the search result came out, but the MUM system can provide more information as well as provide answers to user’s questions. For example, when a user asks about the "iPhone 13 camera function," the MUM system can provide information about the iPhone 13 camera function as well as the camera function compared to other smartphones.

Unlike previous search systems, MUM systems can perform a variety of operations. For example, when a user wants to plan a trip, they can search all of their flight reservations, hotel reservations, and tourist information all at once. This allows users to save time and get more accurate information.

MUM will provide more information and evolve into a more comprehensive model that previous search systems have not provided. Users can now get answers by asking questions, rather than typing in search terms. This will allow users to get faster and more accurate information, which will benefit them greatly. 

# Comparison with CharGPT
ChatGPT is an AI-based chatbot developed by OpenAI. It uses GPT 3.5 models and can provide a natural response like talking to a person. ChatGPT is one of the representative technologies in the field of artificial intelligence language models.

Google's MUM system and OpenAI's ChatGPT have different uses as search engines and chatbots, respectively. MUM is focused on helping in complex tasks, and ChatGPT is focused on providing natural conversations. Both technologies demonstrate superior performance in their respective fields.

However, by comparing these two technologies, MUM systems can perform more complex tasks. ChatGPT, on the other hand, supports more languages and can provide a high level of natural response in various conversational situations. In addition, the MUM system is strongly used as a search engine and ChatGPT as a chatbot.

As such, Google's MUM system and OpenAI's ChatGPT demonstrate superior performance in their respective fields and are hard to compare.

# The Future of AI Technology
AI is contributing to increased productivity, reduced costs, and improved safety in many industries. In addition, in the medical field, AI plays an important role in patient diagnosis and treatment. For example, analyzing medical images using AI technology can more accurately detect diseases or abnormalities that specialists are likely to miss. In addition, combined with automation technology, it greatly helps to improve the work process efficiently.

AI technology also has a negative impact. Artificial intelligence can be abused to infringe on people's privacy, resulting in invasion of human rights. In addition, AI may replace jobs in some groups. This can have a serious economic impact on people. In addition, there are concerns that artificial intelligence can reflect prejudice against people through algorithms.

We must actively respond to the development of artificial intelligence. By making good use of AI technology, we can make people's lives more convenient, but at the same time, we should minimize the negative impact. To this end, all companies and individuals who use AI must fulfill their responsibilities, and governments and regulators must also prevent the abuse of artificial intelligence technology through strict regulations.