---
topic: Environment
date: 2025-04-01
title: Environmental Hazards
writer: Matthew Jeong
slug: environmental-hazards
thumbnail:
---
While living through our daily life there are always bits of danger around us. It can be  divided into two.  Even such simple, small objects, like slippery floors(wet, bad rugs), scissors(sharp objects that can bring injury), and electric shocks caused by plugs(example:  hair dryer around bathtub(water)). If these are mostly dangers that are always around us in daily life, some dangers are critical and uncommon for us. These are a few examples: pollution(air, water), earthquakes, tornadoes, and diseases(pandemics). All these together, in a broader way, can be called hazards. Hazards are basically factors in the environment that have the potential to harm humans, animals, or the natural environment. These can be divided into two categories. One is naturally occurring hazards and hazards that are made by humans. Of course, these pose danger in such areas: as health, safety, and the ecosystem.

Now, to analyze these hazards by dividing them into subsections: natural, biological, chemical, physical, and human-made hazards. Starting with natural hazards, natural hazards are naturally occurring processes such as storms, earthquakes, floods, and volcanic eruptions which can all cause loss of life, injury, and infrastructure destruction. These natural hazards can have a direct impact on humans by killing or hurting(injuring) us. Also, natural hazards such as earthquakes can destroy infrastructure such as roads, buildings, and sometimes agriculture. Therefore, both of them will have the cost of recovering them.

Second is biological hazards, biological hazards are factors that are dangerous to human and animal health, these mostly come from other living organisms like: viruses, bacteria, and fungi. In recent years CoronaVirus, a worldwide pandemic, could be one paragon. Corona Virus was very infectious and spread between people very easily. This caused millions of casualties, and it was critical to elders. These health issues brought social and economic problems which later led to changes in lifestyle. For additional examples, malaria and flu are also biological hazards.

Next is chemical hazards, chemical hazards are chemicals that pose danger to people, animals, and the environment when exposed to the substance. Pollution by industry, the use of pesticides, and other chemicals that have the potential to harm are all chemical hazards. One example might be the cyanide at the Tisza River. It started with a harmful chemical(cyanide) being released into the stream. Which in time killed the organisms(fish) in the river critically and rapidly destroyed the ecosystem overall. Consequently, local fishers lost their jobs because all the fish died out. That was not the only one, it even affected human health because the poisonous cyanide leaked into surrounding towns and their wells(which people took water from). Physical hazards are man-made or natural conditions that have the potential to cause damage to people or other properties. Examples might be slippery floors, bumpy floors(cause us to fall), boiling water, and electric wires, all of these can be physical hazards that can directly cause physical damage to us. Lastly, human-induced hazards are the hazards that arise directly after human activity. Examples of human-induced hazards can be: industrial activity, pollution, war, and many other unsafe conditions that are directed by humans. These both affect humans and the environment. One case of human-induced hazard is the Chernobyl disaster, in which a nuclear plant(human-made) in Ukraine exploded, and exposed radioactive contaminants. Of course, this event caused few deaths, and radiation exposure on people later led to sickness, which in the long term brought a lot of concern. Not only the Chernobyl disaster, wars are also great examples of human-induced hazards. The Syrian Civil War showed all three factors: human, environmental,and social impacts. Human impacts: The war killed over 500,000 people, and a few million were injured and traumatized by the war. Social impacts: about 13 million local people were displaced from their own homes. 6.8 million people were forced to flee to other countries by the violence of the war. The infrastructure also was greatly destroyed, all the cities and small towns were destroyed by getting bombed. Facilities such as schools, hospitals, and other essential facilities were all destroyed or shut down by the war. Finally, because of all of the following, the economy of the country also dropped dramatically. 

In conclusion, environmental hazards affect us and the environment very well in a variety of ways: naturally, biologically, with chemicals, physically, or also through human-made activities. All of these exist in our surroundings, from common things(e.g., slippery floors) to uncommon things(ex. earthquakes).