---
topic: Environment
date: 2025-06-01
title: Forever Chemicals
writer: Matthew Jeong
slug: forever-chemicals
thumbnail:
---
Over the recent years, people have assumed that the products used every day are safe and clean. Products such as non-stick frying pans in our kitchens, to waterproof jackets worn when it rains, but most people do not question what these are made of. The problem with these is PFAS, also known as “forever chemicals.” These man-made chemicals are used in many household items and numerous other products. However,  they come with some unwanted consequences, which affect both the environment and health in serious ways, and the point is that these problems are not recognized. PFAS stands for per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances. These chemicals were first produced in the 1940s and have been utilized widely ever since, thanks to their ability to resist heat, oil, water, and stains. PFAS can be found in many products: food packaging, stain-resistant carpets, water-repellent clothing, non-stick cookware, cosmetics, and even firefighting foam. They help products last longer and work better, but the problem is that they don’t break down in the environment. They stay in the air, water, and soil for decades, sometimes even longer. That’s why they are often called “forever chemicals”, in which they don’t decay forever.

What makes people more concerned is that PFAS can easily enter human bodies. They can leak into rivers and lakes from factories or landfills, and then run into water sources. They can also enter the wildlife and affect it, for example, if a fish lives in PFAS-contaminated water, it absorbs the chemicals, and then a human who consumes it will also take in PFAS. Studies have even found PFAS in vegetables, meat, dairy products, and beverages like beer. This means that almost everyone on the planet may already have some level of PFAS in their body.

Health experts are concerned about the effects of PFAS globally. Research has shown that these chemicals can lead to serious health problems, including liver damage, thyroid disease, weakened immune systems, low birth weights in babies, and even cancer. The worst thing is that chemicals can stay in the human body for many years. Scientists are still studying the full impact of PFAS, and some believe that this is only the inception of this enlarging environmental health issue. Fortunately, this problem is finally starting to get more attention from governments, scientists, and the media(the whole world). In the past years, governments around the world have begun to take action on this. The United States, for example, has brought in water standards that limit the amount of PFAS allowed, preventing people from consuming them. The European Union is also working on stricter rules for industries that use these chemicals, trying to replace them with harmless chemicals. In countries like Australia and Canada, there have been public discussions and laws related to PFAS contamination. Some companies are trying to switch to safer alternatives, and scientists are developing ways to remove PFAS from water using filters. Still, it isn’t easy work. There are thousands of types of PFAS, and some are still being produced and sold without restrictions.

So, what can be done by individuals? While PFAS can not be completely avoided, small changes are enough to reduce exposure to harmful chemicals. For example, we can avoid using non-stick pans when substitutes are available, choose clothing that doesn’t have waterproof or stain-resistant coatings, and be careful with certain cosmetics or food packaging(all of these are products with high contamination of PFAS). Also, labels can be read to determine if a product contains such harmful chemicals. Most importantly, by staying informed and supporting laws and policies that aim to protect both public health and the environment, individuals can speak up or make better consumer choices, helping push change forward.

Currently, chemical pollution is quite a serious issue. PFAS are invisible, but they are everywhere around people, and they are affecting the world in ways that are not well known. I believe that by spreading the awareness of PFAS and supporting science-based solutions, we can start to fix this issue and prevent it from becoming so serious. It won’t be easy, and it will take great effort and time, but if more people learn about PFAS and care about the result of this situation. We all share the same planet, and it should be our responsibility to take care of it, starting with the chemicals we choose to use, and the ones we choose to not. The decision that we make will affect how our future will look like.