---
topic: Social Issues
date: 2024-10-01
title: Artificial Intelligence and Its Problems
writer: Megan Choi
slug: artificial-intelligence-and-its-problems
thumbnail: 
---
AI stands for artificial intelligence. AIs are developed computer systems capable of performing complex tasks typically done by humans, such as language translation, data analysis, programming, and creating virtual images. Moreover, they can even learn like humans from new inputs and experiences. 

Today, AI is used in many industries like education, science, economy, and healthcare. We can also spot the use of AI in our daily life. For example, in the mobile phones we use every day, face ID or touch ID securely unlocks our privacy and personal information. The camera captures accurate face data and infrared images of our face. Touch ID also works similarly. The sensor uses advanced capacitive touch to scan our fingerprints to take a highly accurate image. Additionally, we also have voice assistants such as Siri, Alexa, and ChatGPT, which are AI chatbots. As we can see, AI is already taking a big part in our lives, and it is still developing. Some people think that the development of AIs are beneficial to humans and think that humans will continue living well with AI. But others think that AI is dangerous and that they will take over Earth and control humans oppositely as humans used to control them. 

AI’s potential is much more than we think. These days, AI is replacing many people’s jobs. Why do you think AI is replacing jobs even though humans can do the same thing? This is because AI works more accurately and efficiently than humans do. They operate at high speed with similar or even more efficiency than humans. For these reasons, AI is considered better than humans for developing future technology. Since AI is programmed to mimic human behavior by using extensive data from past examples of similar behavior, it imitates humans' ability to do work and adapt through progressive learning algorithms to let the data do the programming. If AI continues replacing human jobs, many jobs will disappear and workers lose their jobs. According to CNN, many company executives are expecting to have fewer employees in the next five years as they increasingly use artificial intelligence. The use of artificial intelligence will reduce the number of workers at thousands of companies and will eventually lead to great job loss. For people who still can't estimate AI's abilities, these are the lists of jobs that AIs are already replacing.

<ol>
  <li>Translator</li>
  <li>Medical assistant</li>
  <li>Salesperson</li>
  <li>Graphic designer</li>
  <li>Computer programmer</li>
</ol>

I think one of the most controversial uses of AI is deepfake technology. Deepfakes are images, videos, or audios edited or generated by artificial intelligence that aren’t real. Here’s how AIs create deepfakes. It starts with collecting a large amount of data, specifically an image or recorded voice of the person to be copied. Then, AI will input this information and will learn the person’s facial features, movements, and expressions. After this process, the AI will synthesize the inputted image and the latent image and will create the final reconstructed face. These fake images can be used in many ways but most of the time they are used for crime.

These days, the rate of crimes using deepfake technologies are increasing. The most common crime using deepfake technologies is identity theft and financial fraud. We call this “voice phishing”. This was already a problem before AI was developed, but as AI became highly accessible to everyone, it became more serious. The offenders usually created fake documents or websites to trick the victims and eventually make them send their money. They even create fake videos and voice messages by using the victim's exposed personal information. The target age groups are usually elderly people who aren’t used to digital technologies. 

These are the major problems I think that are happening in our society living together with AI. I have only stated the negative side and the problems of it, but there are also many benefits we get from AI. It can finish complicated or challenging work that people sometimes struggle to do. For example, we can ask ChatGPT to help with coding or programming. I’ve also asked ChatGPT to help me make programs during coding classes. As I research more about AI, I can’t believe that AI keeps developing and has reached a level similar or even higher than humans. It is kind of creepy that AI might take over humans and control us in the future. 