---
topic: Social Issues
date: 2025-06-01
title: "Equality for All: Why LQBTQ Rights Matters"
writer: Megan Choi
slug: equality-for-all-why-lgbtq-rights-matters
thumbnail: 
---
These days, people judge and treat others unfairly just because they are different. It could be the way someone dresses, talks, or expresses who they are. In societies, some people might feel left out and isolated because their identity or the way of expressing themselves is not what others generally think is “normal” or “ordinary”. These things might happen subtly or overtly, but what actually matters is that it creates inequality and conflict that causes more negative emotions. One important idea that discrimination happens is in the fight for LGBTQ rights. These rights are about making sure people who identify differently, whether in how they see themselves or who they love, are treated fairly and safely. To any of you who aren’t sure what LGBTQ is, it is a term that includes a diverse range of every gender orientations and identities. Even though progress has been made over the years, a lot of people still face challenges like bullying, discrimination, and a lack of understanding. This is why it is important to discuss these issues, why equality is important and everyone deserves respect. 

Before the 1900s, the awareness of LGBTQ was limited and in ancient Greece, some relationships between men were sometimes seen as part of social and educational life. However, as the religious system and legal system rose, love between the same gender and gender diversity were viewed negatively, perceived as unacceptable or sinful. The society believed that a “normal” relationship was between a man and a woman and taught from a young age that it is the only right way. People who didn’t follow the traditional ideas of gender and relationships were punished by strict laws. Because of it, most people stayed silent and didn’t make their opinion to avoid danger, shame, and punishment. 

Even though most people stayed silent back then, things slowly started to change. By the early 1900s, more people began speaking up about unfair treatment. One major movement was the Stonewall Riots in 1969. Back in the 1960s, it was illegal in many places for LGBTQ people to gather openly. Places that welcomed them were often raided by police, and people could be arrested just for being there. One of the places was the Stonewall Inn in New York City. On the night of June 28, 1969, the police came to raid the bar like they had done before. Instead of staying still, people inside decided to fight back and stood up to the police. A crowd gathered outside, and the situation turned into a protest. The fight lasted for several days and brought attention to how unfairly LGBTQ people were being treated. The Stonewall Riots weren’t planned but it became a powerful moment that started a larger movement. They made more people realize that LGBTQ people deserved rights, safety, and respect. 

Over the years, things slowly started to get better. After the Stonewall Riots, more people began standing up for LGBTQ rights. In 1970, the first Pride parades were held in  New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago to commemorate the Stonewall Riots. After the first parade, it happened annually to help people speak out for equal rights. Also, these days, Pride Month in June is celebrated around the world and reminds us that everyone deserves to feel proud of who they are. Also, activist groups were formed to fight for equal treatment in  everyday life. Following societal awareness, some countries began to change their laws. Before then, most countries didn’t allow same gender marriage. But after some changes occurred in the society, some places started to allow same gender marriages. For example, the Netherlands became the first country to legalize same-gender marriage in 2001. Other countries also followed. Canada legalized same-gender marriage in 2005 and the United States in 2015. Also, schools and workplaces started adding rules to protect people from being bullied and treated unfairly because of their identity. 

These changes matter not just for society but for everyone's lives. In communities or groups of people, everyone should feel safe, accepted, and free to be themselves. It also creates a positive atmosphere when we treat everyone equally and helps us to become more open-minded and respectful. Also, LGBTQ rights aren’t just about laws or identity. They’re about how people are treated every day. Looking back at the progress that’s been made in people’s rights, it’s clear that things can change when people raise their voices and take action. Just being respectful and polite might be enough to create a better society for everyone. 