---
topic: Technology
date: 2023-04-01
title: What is ChatGPT?
writer: Seohyun Jeon
slug: what-is-chatgpt
---
The artificial intelligence industry has quietly gotten bigger and improved with a fast speed. These days, ChatGPT has been the main discussion topic in the artificial intelligence industry. What does GPT stand for? GPT stands for Generative Pre-Trained Transformer. You might have heard of it, and tried to use ChatGPT, but you might not fully understand the details about this newly invented artificial intelligence. ChatGPT is an AI language model that is created to understand and answer questions. ChatGPT is created based on the current GPT-3 model, more specifically GPT-3.5. The GPT-3 architecture is a neural network that is capable of answering any questions—  even questions from doctor's license exams and SAT, ACT exams. By answering various questions from ChatGPT users, it uses this data to improve itself.

Then, how was it trained? How can it fully answer any questions that humans ask? Here is how it is so intelligent. ChatGPT is trained by a huge dataset that includes a variety of topics and writing styles. It has information about anything, like law and surgery. The training it gets everyday from its user makes itself able to understand and answer text in any form or style that is similar to contents which humans wrote. This makes ChatGPT an important, appealing artificial intelligence tool for chatbot systems, content creation, and even giving customer service.

Now that we learned about how ChatGPT works, and how it gained the huge amount of knowledge. You might have questions like this:  How has it changed, or improved the artificial intelligence industry? The impact of ChatGPT on the AI industry is significant. Here is the reason why. It is because its ability to answer like humans by using natural language can help in every field. For example, in businesses and organizations, by using this, they can easily communicate with their customers. It can also help to improve the efficiency of every work because it can help people even in content creation, translation, data analysis, etc. To add on to these benefits which I explained, ChatGPT also shows a first significant step in the field of AI research. Its capabilities show the potential of neural networks to understand and make answers in a way that is really similar to human language. Except for these, we can use it in a wide range of  fields, even including medicine, finance, and education.

If you carefully read my article until here, you might think ChatGPT is a flawless technology, but it is not. There are many challenges and controversies too. One of the major concerns is about the potential bias that can be created during training by huge amounts of data. The problem is that among those data, some of them might include a diverse range of topics and writing styles, which can influence ChatGPT with  little biases that may be present in the data. This is an unsolved concern because it could lead to uncomfortable responses for some people. 

Another concern is the potential for misuse of ChatGPT. Because ChatGPT can bring up every answer with natural language, and answer with almost perfect, concise information, there is a risk that it could be used in wrong ways like cheating, creating fake news, misinformation, or creating other harmful contents. The AI industry and people are putting a lot of effort into creating a model that is free from these risks.

ChatGPT is just the first breakthrough step in the artificial intelligence field. Because it showed its impressive capabilities, people now might learn how they can improve it to revolutionize various industries like in for businesses or organizations. We cannot deny that the model's ability to create human-like responses by natural language and its use in a variety of fields are highly impressive and incredible.