---
topic: Computer Science
date: 2025-03-01
title: Biocomputing
writer: Theodore Kim
slug: biocomputing
thumbnail: 
---
The rapid advancement in the field of computing has led to a digital revolution resulting in rapid developments in the field of artificial intelligence (AI) and data science. However, as traditional methods of computingtechnology are meeting physical limitations, researchers are discovering alternative methods. One emerging field is biocomputing which utilizes biological materials like DNA and protein to carry out computing. Many claimthat biocomputing has the potential to revolutionize various fields from healthcare and AI to fields as far as environmental science. This article aims to examine the principles of biocomputing, its current uses,challenges, and future expectations. 

Biocomputing or biological computing, is the use of biological molecules like DNA, proteins, and cells to perform computations. Contrary to classical computers, which rely on silicon transistors, biocomputers involvebiological properties of storing, processing, and analyzing information. The foundation of this remarkable technology is in the fact that biological molecules, especially DNA, can encode large amounts of informationefficiently and on a compact scale. DNA molecules, composed of four nucleotides, can store a large amount of data. First invented by Leonard Adleman in 1994, DNA computing, it utilized DNA strands to solve complicatedmathematical problems like the traveling salesman problem. This foundation built a root for utilizing biological components in the area of computing. 

By allowing biological circuits to detect disease at a molecular level, biocomputing has the potential to drastically shift the area of medicine. Researchers are currently developing DNA-based nanomachines that can spotcancer cells and trigger drug delivery pathways. This advancement could lead to the development of personalized and effective treatments not only for cancer but also other diseases. Moreover, biocomputing has accelerateddrug discovery through simulations of complex biochemical interactions in a biological background. The traditional method of testing drugs involves time-consuming and expensive procedures, but DNA-based simulation modelswere proven to significantly reduce both chronological and physical expenses. 

The world nowadays is going through a mass expansion of digital data, with traditional storage reaching their borders. DNA offers an effective solution to this due to its capability to store immense amounts of data withoutstanding capacity and durability. Current research suggests that a single gram of DNA can store 215 petabytes of data. Additionally, while hard drives deteriorate over time, DNA can maintain its structure over thousandsof years if kept in optimal conditions. Furthermore, DNA-based cryptography provides an extremely secure way of safeguarding encoded information. Since DNA sequences are unique and too complex to imitate, they can be usedas a powerful key to the improvement of cybersecurity technology.

Biological systems, especially the human brain, serve as the motive of neuromorphic computing, which aims to develop computers that mimic neural networks. In the development of biological neural networks, where neurons canperform computations similar to AIs in traditional computers, biocomputing research has contributed greatly. Compared to traditional computers,  biological computers are also more sustainable as they do not require vastamounts of energy and are biodegradable. 

Despite its large potential, biocomputing currently faces a few significant challenges. First of all, biological molecules are highly complex and unpredictable, making it difficult to develop standardized computers.Furthermore, while DNA can store a vast amount of data, the process of retrieving and processing information is comparatively slow compared to modern electronic computers. Last but not least, the mix of biological materialswith computing produces ethical questions regarding genetic privacy and bioterrorism. As a result, biocomputing remains an expensive and limited field for mankind. However, constant research and technological developmentsare predicted to reduce costs and make it more feasible. 

In spite of these challenges, biocomputing remains a rapidly developing field with numerous promising expectations. Researchers are innovating systems that break the border between biological and silicon-based computing.Soon, biocomputing could be able to open a world of living computers that work within the human body to monitor body conditions. DNA-based supercomputers might enable solving complex issues far above human and currentcomputer processing capabilities. 