---
topic: Sports
date: 2024-06-01
title: Influence of Sports
writer: Theodore Kim
slug: influence-of-sports
thumbnail: 
---
While there are billions of people who love watching sports, there aren’t many who think of how sports influence us these days. Sports not only are a direct form of entertainment but also have a great history, and it indirectly shows the culture of each country. It started off as something simple but became something much more profound, a competition. During its evolution from an exercise to a competition, it started impacting various areas such as health, economy, and culture. 

To start with, one of the most significant effects of sports in our society is the enhancement of physical health. Nowadays, people suffer from many health problems such as obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular diseases. For people who aren’t healthy, watching sports engages them, therefore, which would help people engage in them, helping them get away from these diseases and promoting development in children during growth. Furthermore, sports also greatly influence people’s mental health. Through playing sports, adrenaline and endorphins are released. These chemicals help people get rid of their worries, stress, and anxiousness. Moreover, team sports also help people to learn sportsmanship and how to treat people in difficult situations which happens a lot during sports. In many places such as Brazil, people from the neighborhood gather to play soccer together, naturally fostering the whole neighborhood to build a sense of unity. Many sports competitions include people from nations around the world. Through these events, it helps countries to build good relations and respect each other’s strengths and weaknesses. 

Moreover, sports have a great effect on economies too. Through the existence of sports, there have been many jobs created. Without the existence of sports, there wouldn’t have been major companies such as the NFL, NBA, and FIFA, which are all multi-billion dollar companies that hold world-famous sports matches. These companies not only benefit themselves but help many other businesses through advertising and merchandising their products. With the growth of sports, there are many large and small sectors arising, one of them being sports tourism. In order to watch sports, people visit other companies to engage vividly in these matches. Through these visits, the country gets to advertise its merchandise and culture. Therefore, there are many economic benefits for the country such as the construction of infrastructures and stadiums for the match to be held. For example, in 1992, an Olympics was held in Barcelona, which, during that time, needed urgent urbanization. Due to the preparations for these games, there were many sporting infrastructures constructed and there were also significant improvements in the local economy through the development of local transportation and facilities. One of the most significant buildings that was made was the Olympic Stadium on Montjuïc Hill and swimming pools in the local area. These enhanced infrastructures lead to the attraction of businesses and international events, boosting the economy of Spain dramatically. 

In addition, sports also have a large impact on the culture of society. In some parts of the world, there are still countries that do not treat women equally. However, these actions can be changed through the roles of women in many sports nowadays. Women player's dominance in some parts of sports is promoting gender equality in a way that would eventually have a greater influence. Also, similar to the previous statement, many athletes have a great influence in many places of the societies. Thus, using their public stance, they can make statements that show the current issues of the society. There are also many aspects of education that sports can influence. One of the great benefits of sports in education could be the reinforcement of qualities like leadership, teamwork, and patience. Also, many schools include physical education, which could also be a factor that shows the importance of sports in future life. 

Last but not least, it is apparent that sports are a great source of entertainment. More than half of the world’s population admire watching sports due to the fun it gives and to see how their own country does in the Olympics and World Cups. 

As a conclusion, sports nowadays are not only a form of entertainment but are extremely important in many aspects of life. It is a great help to the economy worldwide and to many countries that aren’t fully urbanized. Through many benefits in a variety of areas, sports influence people greatly throughout societies. 