---
topic: Computer Science
date: 2024-11-01
title: Challenges and Solutions in Cybersecurity
writer: Theodore Kim
slug: challenges-and-solutions-in-cybersecurity
thumbnail: 
---
As technologies develop, our dependence on cyberspace increases at a meteoritic rate. With the development of cyberspace, people are putting more valuable information online making the internet a critical point for both organizations and individuals. Cybersecurity involves the protection of digital systems, networks, and data from unauthorized access or damage, ensuring that both information and operational security remain intact. This is a relatively new field that is being constantly developed even today for the general good of the public. Its impact is crucial, as data breaches, cyber-attacks, and other hazardous activities could affect not only individuals but businesses and even nations. This article aims to delve into the challenges cybersecurity poses and state some possible solutions including practices to combat these attacks. 

The internet is a complex and vast place, thus, cyberattacks consist of numerous innovative attacks. Among these attacks, the most dominant ways of assault are ransomware, phishing, and malware. Malware and dangerous software include viruses and worms that sneak into the systems and gain unauthorized access to them. Another major rising threat is phishing, which involves utilizing deceptive tactics where individuals are tricked into providing sensitive information, typically through fake emails or bank accounts. Ransomware is a form of malware that is extremely severe, as it steals data and requests payment for retrieval. Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) is distinct from the other types of cyberattacks.  It uses traffic to overwhelm networks and causes significant disruption to the net. 

Not only are cyberattacks becoming more frequent, but they are also growing increasingly sophisticated. Nowadays, cybercriminals utilize artificial intelligence (AI) for their attacks which not only automates the process but also provides the ability to avoid detection. For example, some cybercriminals utilize “fileless” malware which directly attacks the system memory rather than following the traditional way of going through the files of the user. Using this method, it bypasses traditional antivirus systems which look for malicious activities in the files. Moreover, hackers nowadays mimic the behavior of normal users. This level of innovation drives proactive measures from both defenders and attackers to outpace each other. 

People often become involved in these malicious activities through uninformed or careless actions. Many cyber incidents usually occur from clicking on malicious links without suspecting it. These mistakes all show the significance of “cyber hygiene”, which is the practice of safe behaviors on the net to reduce possible vulnerabilities. For instance, I had previously gotten a message from an unknown person on Steam claiming that he would provide me with a 50-dollar free gift card if I clicked on a link. Since I learned that these groups send messages with malicious viruses attached, I was able to avoid these viruses. However, people without education on the matter are extremely vulnerable to these crimes. Thus, nowadays, there are many campaigns and activities from the government that aim to promote awareness. 

In addition to campaigns, other diverse range of solutions and practices have been developed. Technological defenses such as firewalls and encryption are two of the most fundamental defense systems. Firewalls are the first walls that defend the device by blocking unauthorized access to the networks while encryption encodes the data in a way that prevents it from being read when attacked. Policies and regulations also play a significant role in the security of cyberspace areas. Although these play a crucial role, a major problem is that there aren’t many laws or policies related to cybersecurity due to its recent appearance. Thus, most countries do not yet have cyber-related policies. However, the few countries that have these laws have experienced a great decline in crime rates. For instance, Singapore, after it has applied cybersecurity laws, has shown a  noticeable improvement. As a result, it is essential to acknowledge that the laws and defenses related to cyber crimes are still developing and that they are yet to be fully implemented. 

As cyber threats constantly evolve, our strategies to counter them are also evolving. Effective cybersecurity strategies need to address both the social and technological aspects of these crimes. With technologies constantly improving, the potential vulnerability is also growing, meaning it is important to prevent them firsthand. Thus, as we progress in this era of technology, our ability to decrease vulnerability depends on continuous awareness and understanding of the potential risks. 