---
topic: Computer Science
date: 2025-04-01
title: How Do Computers Work?
writer: Theodore Kim
slug: how-do-computers-work
thumbnail: 
---
Computers are an essential part of modern life and are being utilized in diverse industries like education and manufacturing. Most people nowadays use computers without much discomfort and do not wonder about their mechanisms. It might seem like a highly complex machine, but once the secrets of its simple mechanisms are revealed, it would look like a fairly simple one. Initially, at their core, computers process and store data through a combination of hardware and software. This article aims to reveal from the physical mechanisms of computers up to their software-level processing. 

To start off, the central processing unit (CPU) is one of the most mandatory parts of a computer’s body. Compared to a human, the CPU of a computer could be referred to as the human brain. It consists of three main parts: Arithmetic Logic Unit (ALU), Control Unit (CU), and Registers. The ALU is the part that performs mathematical operations and logical comparisons of data. The CU is a unit that directs the path of the data and gives instructions within the computer. Last but not least, the registers are small, high-speed storage used to store temporary data. Similarly, the human brain has short-term memory sites represented by the registers in computers. According to the fetch-decode-execute cycle, the CPU retrieves instructions from the memory, decides what needs to be done, and then carries out the order. This process is repeated billions of times every second, eventually allowing computers to execute high-class, complex tasks swiftly. 

The memories of computers are not only in a single, fixed form. Rather, computers rely on differing types of memory and storage in handling data. The first type of memory is Random  Access Memory (RAM). RAM is a temporary storage area that keeps data and instructions while the computer is being used. However, when the computer is shut off, its information is also erased. This is the reason why typical PCs have a RAM of 16GB. For instance, if an open-world game is run for a long time on a computer, the game constantly regenerates monsters and might fill the RAM. The higher the amount of data in the RAM, the slower the computer gets. Thus, a very large RAM amount of about 64GB is utilized in computers that constantly need to store data and use it. The next type of data is Read-Only Memory (ROM) which is a type of permanent memory that retains necessary information for booting the computer. The final type is hard drives and SSDs which are used for long-term data storage. SSDs, also known as Solid-State Drives are faster and more durable than original hard disk drives (HDDs). SSDs are usually in large amounts in PCs since they are stored forever unless the information is manually erased by the user. Thus, SSDs are usually used in 1TBs in most PCs. This is because most games are usually up to 50 GB nowadays. 

The computers also interact with the users through input and output devices. The input devices are usually keyboards and mice; it could sometimes include touchscreens, microphones, and sensors. The output devices are monitors, speakers, printers, display, or any other form of device that shows the results of the inputs. As the inputs and outputs interact, the software plays a substantial role. Computers are executed through internal software programs, a set of instructions written in programming languages. The languages are usually: Python, C++, and Java. However, not all programs are necessary. Programs like Windows Desktop Manager are absolutely necessary and are called system software, others including OS and utility programs.  Browsers like Chrome do not greatly affect the computer’s function and are called application softwares: programs that are made for specific tasks like web browsers. 

Apart from these applications and mechanisms, to function, computers these days need connection to networks. Networks allow communication and data sharing between different devices. A popular form of network is the internet, a vast network of various computers linked through numerous technologies. These computers also communicate through protocols like IP. IP (Internet Protocol) could be utilized for other functions. For instance, game companies might ban users’ IPs in order to prohibit players that use illegal programs. 

To sum up, while computers may seem like extremely sophisticated machines, they work upon basic electronics and logic. The parts covered in this article all interact to allow computers to perform numerous tasks. Through knowledge of computers and their mechanisms, we can utilize and appreciate them more than before. It also gives us a base for learning programming, cybersecurity, computer science, and other fields. As technology develops, computers will evolve alongside it to provide people with stronger aid. 