---
topic: Computer Science
date: 2024-12-01
title: Quantum Computing and Its Benefits
writer: Theodore Kim
slug: quantum-computing-and-its-benefits
thumbnail: 
---
Quantum computing is a rising field that blends quantum mechanics with computer science, and it is expected to globally revolutionize both technology and science. Classical computers process information in binary bits while quantum computers utilize quantum bits, or also known as qubits. These qubits cannot be defined by one specific state due to a phenomenon called superposition. Superposition is a key aspect that allows complex calculations simultaneously. The potential benefits of quantum computing are immense because it offers increased processing speed, problem-solving skills, and much greater efficiency compared to traditional computers. 

One of the best-known benefits of quantum computers is their unbelievable computing speed. While traditional computers solve problems one step at a time, quantum computers use superposition to solve multiple steps simultaneously. This enables quantum computers to solve issues that would take traditional computers forever. For instance, Shor’s algorithm, a quantum algorithm for finding the prime factors of an integer, can break down the current security system through mathematical methods. This incredible speed would directly influence many fields that put its basis on computing, cryptography, material science, and artificial intelligence (AI). Another field that benefits from quantum computing is the medical industry. Currently, discovering new drugs takes years and an immense amount of funds. As quantum computers can effectively investigate the structure of molecules, they allow faster discovery of possible drugs. For example, examining the behaviors of proteins, which is an important part of disease discovery, is a difficult task for traditional computers. However, unlike original computers, quantum computers allow the efficient examination of these proteins which could potentially allow cures to be found for currently invulnerable diseases such as cancer and Alzheimer's. 

Quantum computing is not only useful for complex tasks but also has great potential in manufacturing industries. Especially in logistics and supply lines, quantum computing could solve many issues related to shipping and management. A famous problem in these areas is the traveling salesman problem (TSP) which involves an algorithm that has to find the shortest possible route to multiple destinations. This process is extremely difficult for traditional computers to perform while quantum computers have algorithms that can consider numerous paths at the same time, allowing the discovery of the most efficient route in a matter of seconds. Thus, if large companies like Amazon, FedEx, or DHL start utilizing quantum computers, they would be able to obtain optimal efficiency in shipping, delivery routes, and cost reduction. Likewise, in flights, quantum computing could make flight paths more optimal and safe. 

AI is another rising field in computer science, and it is also greatly influenced by quantum computing. Quantum computing allows an acceleration of AI learning speeds and processing. For instance, quantum computers have a much larger data control ability, which enables AI systems to learn and adapt more productively than before. This would lead to great advancements in autonomous vehicles, large language models, and various other areas. By merging AI with quantum computing, industries like OpenAI could develop much smarter and more efficient systems. Moreover, through the application of quantum computing, humans will be able to solve long unsolved problems such as climate change and the need for efficient sustainable energy sources. Not only can it help efficiently manage energy throughout the world, but it could also lead to the development of completely new energy sources. The possible new energy sources are productive batteries, solar cells, and even carbon capture technologies—technologies that reduce carbon dioxide emissions through capturing and storing gas. As a result, by effectively finding solutions to these challenges, quantum computing would play an important role in the near future. 

While the benefits of quantum computing are rather explosive, the technology to construct a proper one is not fully developed. Constructing qubits that are stable and eliminating possible errors in these computers pose significant challenges. Furthermore, the extreme cost of developing these and the requirements of specialized knowledge in order to utilize them properly further restrict their development. However, currently continuing advancements in hardware, such as qubit development and quantum systems, are slowly opening a pathway towards full construction of quantum computers. Many companies like Google and D-Wave are diligently working towards the development of quantum computers. 

Quantum computers are revolutionary in how we solve and approach issues. To reiterate, its ability to solve problems at a remarkable speed has the ability to aid in diverse areas such as medicine, manufacturing, and AI. While there are obstacles to their development, their benefits far outweigh the funds and time required. As quantum computing continues to progress, it will not only aid technology but it will also solve humanity's greatest problems. 